so I'm really impressed that you all
made it here after lunch on Friday
that's just total hundred percent
commitment to this so I'm my name is
Brian crawl and the senior director in
charge of product marketing for our
system software mac OS 10 mac OS and
server xcode as well as the quicktime
side so what we're going to be here
today I'll just give you a general
premise of what we're going to talk
about so how many people here heard some
cool stuff is this week well that's
about a hundred percent that's good that
was the whole point so I'm happy about
that how many of you want to come back
and tell your organization about it okay
just about everyone so now the big
question is when you go back how many
people are going to face skeptical
skeptical bosses okay unfortunately does
one hundred percent okay so what this
sessions all about is some of the things
I'm going to share with you some of the
things I tell people who are new to the
mac platform and to try to get people to
see things maybe through a different
light so that's the idea this this whole
presentation so I'm going to walk
through a number of the things that you
may hear when you get back so when you
say apple through a lot of people this
is the tape the running in their mind
this is for a lot of people the last
time they ever saw a Mac look something
like that so the whole problem is to
take this old image of what Apple stood
for and what the Mac was all about and
change it to this and to make it up to
date to really fundamentally move
people's image of what Apple's all
about so we're going to walk through
that today so now if there's one thing
that I found to be really effective in
getting people to really understand at
the core what we're doing at Apple is to
just get this phrase down and to really
understand it the power of UNIX the
simplicity of the mac power of unix
simplicity of MacOS people can get this
idea this is by the way our little
marketing tagline but it's also our
strategy I mean this is what we're doing
a lot of people ask if so what are you
doing in the future if you know this
rule you can kind of derive what our
next steps are going to be because we're
going to take the power of unix and how
that evolved and we're going to make it
really easy this is a fundamentally new
strategy from Apple that we we adopted
about five years ago and now we're
really bearing the fruits of so once
again if there's one thing that if I
were going to go out and tell people out
there in the enterprise people who don't
understand anything about Apple or the
Mac this is the one thing I'd really
want them to get so you can hear are
things like this so the kind of comments
you come back and you're talking to
people about apple and what's what's
going on with the mac and here a lot of
people say well max are just too
expensive anybody heard that yeah yeah
okay well you know the key thing here is
that's what people think but when you
really dig under the covers and you look
at the solutions there's some pretty
surprising in a surprising things going
on first of all a lot of people forget
about the emac right we have a really
good entry price you know eight hundred
dollars for an entry-level Mac I get
people who say you know Apple really
should go out and do an under
thousand-dollar Mac and you sort of say
okay we'll get right on that you know oh
that's true but people this is something
that people don't really even know about
you know that the emac even exists so
this is something that we really want to
make sure people know about the next one
that's pretty interesting is Mac os10
okay a hundred twenty nine dollars for
an upgrade you know we come out with OS
is very frequently so for a lot of
people feels like we're doing up raids
quite a bit and getting one hundred
twenty nine dollars a year we understand
that but if you compare that against
everybody else out there in the industry
so for instance if you look at FB pro
okay so I got a little laugh there so
you know that that can be quite a bit
more expensive than one hundred twenty
nine dollars easily easily two hundred
dollars you know after after all such a
discount so the point is you know the
software is also very very inexpensive
comparatively go to the server okay for
an upgrade you know a thousand dollars
for unlimited client license now the key
thing when you're talking to people
about our pricing you cannot really
understand this does not include any
cows right this is all you can eat once
you get this you're done paying you know
there's no no fees for directory entries
there's no fees for accessing a web
server there's no fees for at you know
accessing a file server so again the
price when you add it up is really good
so you know it's also interesting is you
know linux is cheap right okay so if you
were to buy the standard edition from
Red Hat that would be less than this
right because it's so cheap go to the
website and what you see standard
edition server is fourteen hundred and
ninety five dollars from Red Hat okay so
we even compare favorably against a
linux leading limits distribution out
there so that's an interesting fact so
the price here is really aggressive
compared the rest of the industry so
guessing it if you want 64-bit Red Hat
you got to add another five hundred
bucks the price there is 1992 dollars
don't exactly understand the 92 part of
but that's what they went with so the
point is is when you look at the
acquisition costs were really you know
really nice price you all know about the
xserve which is a killer price for three
thousand dollars you get a really
functional incredible incredibly jam
pack when u 1 u box it includes
amazingly competitive in the industry so
again good price they're extra afraid I
mean this is ridiculous there's only one
number that you have to tell people
about x-rayed when you go back to your
company what that number is it's 33
dollars per gigabyte so when you look
down the feature list of X or eight the
first feature is that it's 3 gigabytes
per three dollars per gigabyte the
second is that it's three dollars per
gigabyte and the third is three dollars
per gigabyte that's the thing that it
just blows the industry away here now of
course we make it up in all the
accessories right because we charge so
much for the fibre channel I'm being
very facetious here four hundred ninety
nine dollars for the host bus adapter
okay and that even includes the cables
which can be a hundred bucks from two
other people so when you put the
together the solution here with you know
the extra extra of raid plus Mac os10
server it's pretty incredible oh and one
thing I did forget to tell you is so how
much extra is a software with extra
Freight free all-you-can-eat no extra
cost so the point is is we have an
incredibly compelling price story here
now the new kid on the block x and again
nine hundred ninety nine dollars the
first industrial strength sand solution
under a thousand dollars okay you know a
thousand dollars to hook into a sand you
know everyone else out there is around
three times that for just the
acquisition cost of the software so
again when you put it together we've
done a lot of you know price comparisons
and put a sand solution together a work
group fan
permanent you know workflow I mean we
have four or five different workstations
participating in the stamps and we're
going to call out at about half of
everybody else out there so again we've
really put together an incredibly
compelling a product line up here now
you kind of look at it and say so why in
the world are you pricing it at that
point right because if we're a third of
everybody else you know obviously you
could price at higher but that's not our
strategy and this is something I think
you want to bring back to people is our
strategy is to take these incredibly
powerful technologies bring it down in
price and get it out to a large number
of people and if you look at we've we've
been doing in the pro market across all
of apple with final cut pro with all the
application sweets we have out there
with you know the sand with the mac OS x
server is to take incredible power bring
down the price make it accessible by
ease of use and drive it to higher
volume we popularize those technologies
and that's what we're all about you know
our bet is if we can bring down the
price on a sand solution there's going
to be a lot more people are going to
deploy it and that's what we're all
about so again when people sit there and
say that they're you know it's too high
cost you know do we just don't see it
that way at all I think it's something
that you really want to get back and
have people look under the covers and
get the facts behind it max your
proprietary right okay well you know
this has a lot of germs of truth here
right is in the early 90s a lot of a lot
IT managers were actually going around
with Search and Destroy missions trying
to get the Apple virus off of their
network because they're trying to
standardize on protocol so a lot of
people out there still have that in
their head they're thinking oh man I
don't need a proprietary platform well
as you all know this is just now
factually incorrect and this is the best
objection you can get because you can
just go and say take a look at it you
know there's no argument the entire
innards of Mac os10 are built on
standards and we're going to continue in
the future you know what's really
interesting is what we do is if we see
something that's not standard in Mac OS
10 we go back and we make sure that we
change it over to be I'm a standard
implementation you know you look at
where we've gone from that info to ldap
ok we're going to drive everything
towards the standards because that's not
where we're going to add value by owning
a proprietary protocol or flat file
format we're going to add value by
making it easy go back to the old thing
power of UNIX along with its standards
simplicity of Mac ok so that's just not
our strategy we're going to make things
standard go on step further you know
it's really interesting as I've been
going around talking to a lot of people
interested in open source what I find is
a really actually pretty interesting
phenomenon out there people are looking
for an alternative to Microsoft and the
reason why they're looking is they just
have this feeling of being locked in to
a single vendor and once you're locked
in you have no flexibility right if some
if you have one vendor and they raise
your price you pay more money this is
that simple what people want is to have
one network with multiple flavors of
computers in the past industry standards
networking standards where the way
people wanted to go down and make this
happen but if you look at how the
industry evolved industry standards
really didn't do it it's too hard to
make integrate and make everything work
wait why people are excited about open
source is because open source is a way
of doing a practical implementation of a
standards-based network because if one
vendor uses an implementation of tcp/ip
for instance that's I
anukul to the other vendor one of the
likelihood that is going to work
together it's very high it's the same
source code right so it's going to work
that's the power of open source is if
everybody is using basically the same
source to do network interoperability
it's much easier for the vendors to make
it work it's same thing goes with file
compatibility if we all can see what the
sources that makes it possible for Apple
to be compatible with Sun which you can
be compatible with IBM which can be
compatible with HP which is compatible
with linux which is compatible with
solaris which is compatible with mac OS
10 so open source is a beautiful way
it's a great mechanism to enforce
industry standards and this is what's
gaining momentum right now and this is
where we play so if you look at what we
have is open source this fits perfectly
into the scenario all the infrastructure
and plumbing of Mac OS 10 is entirely
open source as you all know right the
colonel networking file systems with
man's library should go up to the you
know rod a new technology open directory
k HTML the CDF a architecture the
printing architecture all based on open
source that means when it comes to
interoperability and compatibility we're
going to play extremely well into the
world and that's generally what I'm
hearing everybody wants you up to the
server and actually the server when
there's over a hundred open source
projects in mac OS x server you know
apache samba jboss my sequel postfix you
know squirrelmail mailman openldap you
know quick on streaming server so again
the summer idea is is we can make the
world compatible when we go down that
open source path we can make a single
Network we can have compatible file
formats the other very momentous
decision from Apple incompatibility in
going down an open world is to embed
Java in every single copy of mac OS 10
incredibly important
as the world goes to a three tier
architecture what we're seeing is more
and more of the applications have a
presentation layer an application layer
application logic and a database behind
it as we go down that path this is a
beautiful thing that means that all
those power books all those powermax all
those you know all the OS 10 systems out
there are going to be able to plug into
those applications very beautifully
running java on the front end you know
or a web page HTML you know hooking into
an app server hooking into a database it
makes the platform extremely good for
that kind of three tier environment and
again that's what we're seeing across
the board people going down that path
for there are Apple your application
architecture so again we take Java we
tune it like crazy we want to be
entirely compatible with all the
versions of Java out there so the right
once run anywhere idea can actually
happen on the Mac we try as hard as we
can to make that the case and you know
we're going to continue to evolve that
so again a standard environment you're
not going down the proprietary rub so
then you look at a lot of the hardware
standards out there that we use right
from firewire USB Bluetooth you know
ethernet obviously now DVI is another
new one out there in 802 11 the point is
you know standards up and down and
throughout the old proprietary idea of
Apple that's dead that's gone it's all
about standards and making them easy to
use that's the ease of use is where we
add value now you know it's really funny
I have a lot of people and I imagine
you're going to run into this is you go
and say well you know so will the you
know the powerbook work on my Wi-Fi
network right and you're saying rule
yeah and it's funny because people
generally think Foles does it really
don't work and so you know say yeah
right Wi-Fi is the same as their report
same as 802 11 of course this is going
to work we have that up well yeah you
can also add you know if you can get it
to work you know your window system but
after after the weekend trying to figure
out the drivers once you get
to work it will actually fit into the
802 11 world we'd love to make that
easier but we don't see that as our
business so the idea is of course it's
going to work on your 802 11 network
then you go down and you say I get this
question all the time okay yeah yeah
that works but could I put a linksys
router in there and you go yeah you know
we eat that for breakfast lunch and
dinner no problem right so absolutely
positively yes so that I've ranted so I
know you all know this but I'm amazed
how stating the obvious can be a total
enlightening experience for a lot of
people out there you know and I've been
especially in the management ranks right
you know a lot of people just have bad
bad ideas embedded in their head so
again I walk through this example and
people are usually pretty stunned pretty
amazing so the next part it sounds
really great oh man the max look
wonderful you know I love this idea of
known easy to use unix seems pretty cool
but I'll be it's never gonna fit my
network right no way is it going to fit
my network get this all the time I hear
this everywhere well you know not quite
it's going to definitely fit in the
network matter of fact the beautiful
thing is is you go out there in the
world right now and an awful lot of the
corporate networks out there are based
on internet standards right on on
standard you know unix-based file
systems you know all across the home
directories you go to printing mail
security media all those different
architectures are generally you know the
infrastructure you'll find in a large
company and we're going to fit in that
environment it's our native environment
right it's not a matter of being
compatible because the compatible sort
of implies that you're you have to do
something to hook in this is our native
environment this is our language and
that's what we're going to speak again
you know what I find is a lot of people
really have not gotten at their head
that the
back is probably going to be easier to
integrate into a unix-based environment
than any other platform out there
because again it's a native architecture
and the thing that people love is the
idea from their big honkin database down
to their laptop that they're going to
have one architecture based on one set
of standards that's usually pretty
attractive to people again this is
something that it's a subtlety that a
lot of people don't really get so yeah
fitting into a unix-based network is
going to be a breeze well what about
windows well here an interesting thing
happens is because of the wonderful
wonderful world of open source right
with samba 3 with all the work people
have done to integrate UNIX environments
and windows environments we tagged along
right into that we make it really really
simple to hook in this environment and
as you've been hearing today and over
the week with Tiger for instance we're
adding even more you know window
compatibility we're going to continue to
chip away at this and we're going to
make you know this a very simple
environment will plug into all the way
from login authentication you know going
into active directory with our Active
Directory plugins making this much
simpler to do tanning the vast majority
of architectures out there you know home
directories throw it on SMB you know
shared folders exchange plugins now
where we're getting much better at
integrating with an exchange environment
you're obviously down printing and all
the way through the web so the point is
is we're working like crazy to make sure
that we can integrate nicely into the
windows environment and you know
something it's working I go everywhere
and I see people pulling this off on a
day-to-day basis where they have you
know windows infrastructure they have
one set of user accounts you can log
into from both windows environment and
from your Mac okay a very nice seamless
environment so we're doing this so again
Mac is designed to fit into any kind of
architecture out there any kind of
network from a unix-based not affecting
on the eunuch side is if it's not
working in your architecture
that's a bug right and we need to go fix
it that's the way we think of that and
also on the windows side we're going to
go drive like crazy to make sure it
works so again this came from our market
research we went out we we took a hard
look and found it turns out there's a
lot of people with window systems right
so it turnt we thought it was a good
idea to maybe plug into those
environments okay you know we didn't
spend a lot of money on that research
but anyway so the next thing is and this
is one that I love this one you know
what if I go is back what am I going to
do about my office apps I don't know
just you right because they're they're
they're they're available you would not
believe how many times I go and talk to
people who run an IT shop that are
unaware of the fact then you can
actually get microsoft office from
Microsoft and actually run it on the mac
you know it's really funny I was talking
to a customer recently really smart I
mean you know very good customer in a
really really short person and you're
asking so how you get a handle you know
powerpoint you know in Excel and so
forth and they said so you know just as
open office or staroffice run on your
systems and say yeah the open office
runs but are you worried about windows
office compatibility yeah that's the
problem so we'll why don't you buy
office it was like oh it's available
yeah that's an option right so the point
is is that you really got to make sure
people know that this is there you're
going to find that people just don't
know this you know you may assume you've
been here you've seen it a lot of people
haven't gotten through their head and
you know what's really interesting a lot
of people believe this is the best
version of office matter of fact I mean
the way I look at it in a lot of ways I
think Mac os10 is a test bed for what
they're going to do with Longhorn so I
actually think you're seeing office on
what for longhorn is where I look at it
right because a lot of the transparency
a lot of the new interesting
features they're testing out on the Mac
I think we're going to wind up in other
office over time so you know as you see
this quote you know generally people you
know love the you know collaboration
features the compatibility with office
for windows and you know the the
performance stability everybody loves
what I love about this is you know this
really gets it down to an interesting
thing the other fascinating thing
there's a subtlety here is headline
Microsoft ports office to unix you know
you don't think of it that way but they
actually do have an office everyone's on
a unix all right so clearly we have
office the other one is as well okay
they got office but there are no other
applications right there twelve thousand
applications for mac OS ten twelve
thousand we're four years into this
we've got 12,000 apps okay and now what
you're seeing is the turning point is a
lot of these are Mac os10 you know only
focused on Mac OS 10 taking full
advantage of what Mac os10 has out there
you know really across the board you
know you're talking about you know from
the productivity apps publishing signs
you know enterprise apps a lot of
exciting announcements IBM you know this
week Oracle with you know their 10g
platform the leading edge cutting edge
applications showing up on Mac ascent
and a lot of these are new because of
the UNIX underpinning what we're seeing
is this influx of interesting
applications you know you think about it
Oracle is a big enough application to
crush any operating system out there and
it's running beautifully on Mac look at
this you know one of the things when
you're looking at the health of a
platform especially in the operating
system world the real indicator the
harbinger of the future is what are the
apps people doing right because nobody
buys in a new operating system you buy
an operating system to run apps this is
probably the most important slide in a
lot of ways that you're going to see is
there developer connection is going wild
look at that
developers gone wild new video so four
fold over for right probably around four
and a half in last four years new
developers unbelievable and you know
what's great about this we haven't seen
the fruits of this labor yet right these
are all people who are busily writing
things now that are going to be coming
out later so what I think you're going
to see is an incredible explosion of
apps now which even cooler is because of
the technologies we put in that go as 10
the apps that are going to be creating I
think we're going to be the most
innovative apps you're going to see in
the industry so not only is going to be
a lot of apps but you're going to get a
bunch of apps where you can only do
certain capabilities on that goes 10 and
you can't get it anywhere else when you
look at the whole you know just looking
at our announcements with Tiger think
about it with core graphics can you
imagine the kind of interesting things
people are gonna be able to do that with
that you know with our whole core data
that we introduce that's going to be
another amazing thing so we're creating
a platform that I think is going to spur
another level of innovation and you're
going to see an incredible set of
applications showing up so not only is
its volume it's also the quality of the
apps I think you're going to be
incredible so the other thing to always
have at your fingertips that people are
worried about the number of apps is
Macintosh products guide right its first
of all it's a great website I mean it's
it's it's really really handy you can go
there and find you know just about
everything to leave this up so if you
need to copy it down you can do that but
go there check it out this is where you
find all the different solutions
available on Mac OS 10 you know 12
thousand different solutions there for
you to look at so there's probably
something you need there okay so you
know guide apple com okay the other one
if you ever heard this one max or not
for serious computing
not really right what we're seeing which
i think is one of the most interesting
and most exciting things right now going
on in Mac OS 10 is not only is it not
for sirs computing it is V it is the
system for serious computing the
absolute leaders in this industry this
is a picture of james gosling the
inventor of Java Sun CTO of the Java
division over at over at son he loved
his power book he loves mac OS 10 right
and you know this is you know one of the
leading application developers in the
world the lead you know go to any open
source conference and what you're going
to start seeing is over half the people
showing up with their power book go to
our friends at slashdot and take a look
through the boards you're going to see
tons of talk about mac OS 10 because
this is the favorite platform for the
leaders in the industry so when you hear
someone say all this is a Wimpy platform
you know it's only for only four artists
we'll get into that in a second but not
true they're really behind the times
this is the place you know for people
who are on the cutting edge right and
the reason why it's very it's really
obvious right it's an open source
environment you know you get all the
tools you need we and you know give them
given tools away with Mac os10 right
plus you get to run all your
productivity apps you know and it just
worked so you know it's really
interesting is developers don't want to
be sadness right they wanted to weld
code so it's you know it's just easy
they'll have to worry about it right and
then the other thing that's I think
killer is it for when you go to a high
you know really leading edge technology
platform it's available on a mobile
system you can take it with you right
it's available on your portable and
again that's something you just can't
get anywhere else
so I showed you this you know the
increase of growth and I think this is
sort of a fascinating thing so it's
growing like crazy so where's the growth
coming from take a look at this if you
look in 2001 the people who identifies
themselves as being interested in Unix
Linux or Darwin it was a 19-percent so
it's nineteen percent of a smaller base
then you got into in June 2004 we're
thirty-four percent of the people
identified them as unix linux and Darwin
developers right that's a really
interesting shift in the makeup of our
developer community right again this is
for power users and says for the
hardcore technologists the lead
developers and planet so how about
computation I don't even have to say
anything care do I write with Virginia
Tech Virginia Tech being number three
supercomputer in the world you know it's
really amazing think about it five years
ago if I stood up there and said you
know in five years the third fastest
supercomputer in the world will be an
apple computer I don't think that would
have been a credible statement okay but
lo and behold that's what happened and
again nacco is 10 really helped get us
there now that was Virginia Tech well
you know we're going to keep a comment
right so now we have coal succumbing out
with some incredible therma de menthe
thermo dynamic simulations that they're
going to be doing you know with just
unbelievable I mean you know the kind of
numbers we're talking about is you know
teraflops 25 teraflops it's just an
ungodly amount of a floating point
performance you know look at the price
down there that goes back to that
original statement the reason why
everyone's going towards you know the
mac for these supercomputers is the
price tag you know a lot of times you
know the other kind of super computers
out there are literally over 200 million
dollars and they're doing it for like
five
10 million dollars putting together
these projects so the price performance
here is just earth-shattering okay so we
are getting the most sophisticated
technologists in the planet building the
most significant technologies on our
platform on Mac OS 10 right all that
does it just makes Mac os10 even better
because we're really pushing the
envelope and will continue to make it
even even better because we have
customers like this so again
unbelievable power and then I mentioned
earlier about oracle 10g I mean you know
apple on a Mac I mean you know that's
something like I mean again five years
ago that was kind of like Bambi vs
Godzilla you know where the Bigfoot just
comes down and you kind of have this
picture of a flattened pancake of a
system but that's not the way it is
today right with mac OS 10 you know
running on our g5 you know we can eat
this database alive right now no problem
so again a really big scene change and
what Mac is all about what mac OS 10 is
all about and the ability to handle the
most challenging computation out there
in the world so this is another one I
love well we would switch to mac but boy
we're going to have to retrain all our
users you ever heard that everyone we're
going to retrain our users you know okay
so the irony here is you know who's
getting trained don't you it's the
future you know my point here I'm being
a little facetious but you know the idea
that a third grade a third grader can
sit in front of a Mac without any
instructions without any a lot of help
and sit down and get it and figure it
out kind of indicates that the majority
of people's employees could probably
handle it as well now of course they're
going to be some phone calls and
beginning of you know there's only one
mouse button which one do I hit you know
you know those kinds of questions but
you know the point is is you know it
takes a little while to get used to
maybe like two days three days to get
used because there may be some call
generated but here's the interesting
part everybody I know who's implemented
on the mac systems in there in the
company has noted that after that
initial startup period what ends up
happening is you actually end up getting
like the helpdesk request just died down
and there's actually three letters in my
mind why that's the case and those three
letters are dll okay and so I think
you've obviously felt the pain okay and
so the point is is once you get out you
know rid of a lot of that crop you know
it does get a lot smoother sailing and I
think this is something that people have
to really think about is yeah maybe a
little training up front but in the long
haul your help desk it's just going to
go down how about this one have to
return the administrators what I love
about this is you know I have one answer
to that okay right so you look at that
and in the point is if you have known if
you know linux you know flares you know
hp-ux emex you know if you know any
theories of unix out there if you know I
ryx you're going to sit down in front of
Mac OS 10 and fool around for about a
day and you're going to kind of get it
right I mean it's not that different
than everything else you mean LF is LS
its LF okay so all that stuff is there
you know it's really funny by the way
just decide so I'll bring this to people
i'll say you know I told me you next
court and they like don't believe it and
you bring up a terminal and it's great
if they still don't believe it they're
like looking at it say well this is like
you know sort of some weird funky
emulation mode it's like I don't know
how you supposed to its up so it's
really interesting i have people say
okay well I'm going to remote while
again is some other machine to show you
that it you know and they have to go
through their paces but what I find is
really funny is within 10 minutes when I
put this in front of somebody who
understands unix or linux they go from
grumbling and not believing it to then
coming back and going whoo that's kind
of cool right and what's really funny is
you'd think you know a lot of times i
find funny when a demo to these this
crowd is you go when you show them like
all the really amazing graphics that you
can do on that goes 10 you know you show
them like expose you show them all sorts
of cool you all you need stuff and they
look at it and go okay and then you
bring up a terminal with green text then
they go ooh that's cool
go figure okay so the point here is
again it's a learning curve is pretty
pretty you know it's a it's a really
good at learning curve the other
beautiful thing about it is is all the
kids coming out of school today are all
really versed in the whole UNIX
infrastructure with Linux and so forth
so there's a big labor pool out there
you know what's also cool about this is
that what we're finding is I've heard
this phrase bandied about a lot is we're
main streaming we're mean streaming our
Apple administration what this means is
a lot of times what happen is there's
one group over here that was the main
stream administrators right and they
handled the UNIX systems and a window
systems there's this like other group
over here I gets dressed in black or
something you know and they were like
the Mac guys right what's happening is
because the skill sets are the same
they're bringing the two together and
saying that the mac is part of the
mainstream administrative pool because
it's basically just UNIX right and they
can they can share those skills so
that's been a really major change in the
way people are thinking about
administering the Mac then of course
there's this right so if you aren't a
command line junkie you can also get at
it from here and this typically is
better for the people who raised on
novell or raised on NT Wright the
ability to see a graphical user
interface like this and handle it not
really as much in the command line but
more for this and I think we've done
incredibly good job of making it easy to
use for someone who really doesn't want
to get down to the clan line and by the
way just to the side this is really you
remember that 3rd grade teacher earlier
we actually really designed a lot of the
server admin and us all the admin tools
to apply to that school teacher setting
up a network inside of their classroom I
mean that is a design center here so we
really try to make it that easy to do
and i think i think you know we've done
a pretty good job of that we have
another product ard of a remote desktop
another just incredible tool that makes
it easy for admittance to do all sorts
of cool stuff here what you see you
knows we're looking another session Jose
powerbook right you can do all sorts of
really cool stuff you know software
distribution at that management remote
administration a remote assistance you
know if you have a couple max in your in
your department you want to make sure
that you have remote desktop because
that's the best way to administer Mac
desk Mac os10 desktops out there the
reason I bring this up is when you show
this kind of a tool to people who are
used to the more windows oriented world
a lot you know the light bulbs go off
and they go this is really cool again
you know that retraining cost of
administration goes way down when they
see tools like this the other thing I
wanted to mention out I don't know if
you all know about this but there's a
migrating to mac OS and server from
windows NT really interesting document I
don't know I has anyone seen this before
okay not a lot of people I really really
recommend you go you go check this out
you know again migrating from a closed
sensor over to win it from windows NT
because what it does is this just a page
from it it literally goes through the
screens and says here's what you see you
know an NT here's what you're going to
see in Mac OS 10 so it really speaks to
the people who know the whole windows
world so we've gone a really extra step
here to make it easy to get oh passed
that retraining issue you know you can
just move right over we train through
the translation for people okay now what
I want to talk about is one of the
killer things when you put it all
together again we're talking about
skeptics if you have anybody in your in
your organization that's doing any kind
of technical work any kind of you know
unix environment this this set of slides
I think really kind of nails it for
people is you have see here we're going
to hurt time with this clicker there we
go is this is PowerPoint ok on Mac OS 10
right this is a java application ASAP
front end all running on the same
machine powerpoint SI p
and this is an x11 application so we
have office java x11 all-in-one machine
go find me that anywhere this is a
unique offering in the industry nobody
can do this you know I've been I've been
actually working in the unix world for
you know hate to admit it but almost 20
years now in the commercial world and
this is a screen that literally I've
been waiting for like 15 years to see
right where you have office coupled with
you know a job environment coupled with
the you know powerful technology
applications all running in a really
robust unix environment okay for us a
lot of people in the industry this is
unbelievably exciting and when they see
this it really changes the way they view
about it so really comes together with
as the dream machine and you layer Apple
you know ease of use on top of it the
legendary Mac os10 you know it's funny
because it's a computer that's actually
fun to use and you can do your business
with it and you can do your productivity
applications and when you put it all
together and you can take it with you on
your portable what I found is again
talking to skeptics I can usually really
get their curiosity going here
especially if you ever hear anyone who's
talking about you know if your company's
thinking about going into the Linux in
any way shape or form right you got to
look at this because in a way this is
like you know I think the twenty twenty
second century version of Linux in a lot
of ways right okay so we've got it all
here and again the spirit of this is I
mean you all know this but I'm trying to
give you some of the things that I found
when I talk to people really get them
excited and a lot of its stating the
obvious right I mean this isn't really
particularly profound but what I found
is when I go and tell it to people it
really makes a lot easier for them to
get over the hurdle to the mac so when I
look at it you know fundamentally when
you go under the covers and you do the
work you actually actually go through
the exercise of pricing things
which you will find is max are cost
effective okay when you put it all
together software and hardware layer in
the cows and then if you really wanted
to get fancy then you start estimating
the kind of help desk the kind of
administrative costs on top but I'm just
talking even on just straight ahead
acquisition costs we're going to be very
competitive max are open ironically you
know we're just about the most open
platform out there as far as you know
the whole infrastructure open source
should get your hands on it right you
can do what you want with it all the
standards throughout the system you're
there we're going to fit in the network
matter of fact one of my favorite tests
I have a friend who just convinced his
startup to go down the Mac path with a
bunch of software developers and they
were all privately using their power
books their management their IT guy
didn't want to do that so what they did
is they cut a deal with the guy and they
said if you can't tell it's a mac on the
other side of your network right that's
plugging in your network will you let us
do it and he said that's a deal and what
was really interesting is just recently
with the Panthers you know Active
Directory Integration as well as being
able to handle exchange server much
better they finally got over that that
hurdle and actually the IT director said
fine as long as I don't know it's it's a
mac on the other side perfectly fine and
it worked beautifully right so it just
plugs in right office on the mac yep
it's there and it's compatible and it's
a genuine copy from Microsoft 12,000 app
tons of apps available
they're absolutely powerful systems for
very serious computing now you know it's
also interesting right it's only for
artists well you know it's a wild that's
going on I think a lot of you probably
are participating this in this right now
is with the whole digital you know the
digital move to digital especially high
definition these are the most
challenging applications of today these
applications demand the most from
computing the most from storage they
beat on the storage infrastructure more
than any other apps out there so the
interesting part is is where Apple
normally is is in the very highest end
of the performance scale this shouldn't
be a surprise or easy to manage easy to
use you know again that that retraining
boogeyman out there i think is largely
something that we can bank wish fairly
you know fairly simple again you know
third my third grader can handle it
pretty well we think you guys can handle
it so the point is you know we go
through this a lot of really obvious
things to say we're saying when you go
back and you want to talk to people
about integrating max into your
environment but there's one last thing
that I wanted to talk about that I
haven't hit on is the security aspect
okay turns out right now there is a huge
move of people who are just kind of 22
views one view is the amount of money
they spend a lost time due to viruses is
phenomenal just the amount of downtime
due to viruses people voix literally
major companies left lost a whole day of
operations due to him a handling a virus
you realize that could be the whole
profit for a quarter that one day that's
a risk that's a really brutal risk to
take so you know a lot of people are
sort of saying do a have to do this
right so what's going on here the other
half of the people are sitting there and
saying is it smart
to have a monoculture I'm sure you've
all heard this argument it's a look you
know just like in biology if you have
like all the wheat is identical one
fungus can come and wipe it all out
right there's no redundancies there's no
variety it's extremely vulnerable same
thing goes if you have one set one
architecture in your company one virus
can come in and shut it down so that's
not a good place to be so a lot of folks
right now are looking at the model
saying you know we're going to take
twenty percent of our desktops and have
them be something other than Microsoft
you know not because they don't like
Microsoft find products but they just
need to have variety and it's so that
one virus doesn't come in and just bring
them down to their knees and this is
something i think that's gaining a lot
of steam right now so on one hand lost
productivity due to viruses other hand
you know one way to fight that and get
ahead of it is to diversify the base a
little bit now you know it's interesting
in the past people used to say you know
a heterogeneous environment and it's
expensive it's more expensive it's
harder to manage and there's a truth to
that so there's a cost to that but now
what's happening is we finally
understand there's a cost to a
homogenous environment as well and that
cost comes through decreased security so
you just think of balancing that so what
we're seeing is people really taking a
look and saying you know we want to go
somewhere different now a lot of people
would argue well you know max aren't
really not much more secure you know
it's because the volume small right it's
small part of market as a result if I'm
a virus writer I'm not going to go after
that I'm going to go to the big stage
which is the ninety-five percent of
computers out there that are windows
right you hear that a lot to that I say
hey we'll run that experiment
we'll take the 25 percent market share
and we'll see you know for secure or not
maybe we'll be maybe we won't but you
know we'll run that dead extranet the
point is at the end of the day it
doesn't really matter why you know we
have not yet had no knock on wood right
nobody's perfect we haven't had a major
virus yet right and that's something you
can you can say you know we eat again we
always cross your fingers because it can
happen but for some reason it hasn't hit
yet so the point is we generally have a
much better security record and that's
something that I think we're very proud
of and there are some pretty interesting
reasons why we're doing it right is
obviously being we believe being open
and having an open source core makes for
more secure product you know why because
the security vulnerabilities are bugs
and the best way to stomp out bugs is
have somebody do peer review and look at
your work have some other eyes look at
it right you guys have all done you
neither develop code or done you know
engineering projects and you see things
from one angle somebody else comes along
and they'll look at it from a very
different angle and find an error well
that's what open source is all about is
peer review having other people look at
the code and that's something we think
has really been effective for us you
know we get ahead of it matter of fact
we find that the majority of people
learning us about a potential flaw comes
from outside of our development
organization someone else looking at it
and saying oh look at that that could be
a problem you know these are theoretical
but we get to fix them ahead of time so
we have a lot of eyes looking at that
contrast with a proprietary approach
where you have to trust the vendor and
that particular develop an organization
to get every single bug right you just
you just you can't you gotta trust that
they're doing it and you also know that
there's no outside kind of auditing
going on of the code it's only that one
organization and it tends to be tend to
get a pretty single view of the world
from that standpoint so we think that's
been really good the other interesting
thing is we also built Mac OS 10 from
the ground
up to be secure and that's also paid
evidence you know I a lot of ways we had
the advantage because Mac extends a new
operating system of having we can
develop it after we knew about the whole
internet and we knew about a lot of
flaws you know potential flaws out there
so we could build it in as we built Mac
OS 10 from the ground up right so as a
result when you look at the things we
built in as for a secure setup you know
all our torts are closed right out of
the box right the services are off I
have a customer outside newsgroup if we
really funny is at a university ok so
what he does he goes into the server
room installs the computer gets it up
and running gets it going walks back to
his office sits down his server had
already been compromised ok I mean
within like it was like literally said
it was a two minute exercise it was just
BAM so you know we get around that you
don't have to go in detail do a security
detail when you buy a mac and that's
really important again that's because we
knew about it when we were building it
there's a lot of other features like
that we build in right from the ground
up you know it's as simple things like
the route you know route is off when you
start you know it's disabled so that you
know that's a nice security feature for
you to keep people from immortally
exploiting this machine you know we do
you know we have a nice way of requiring
authentication when you want to load in
a new application or run it right you
gotta fennec ate it our mail is safe
that when you want to run something or
run a binary out of mail you know we we
make sure that you know you're running a
binary out of mail right so you can't do
it telling the scenes there's a lot of
interesting stuff like that that we
built in to make it a lot harder to
exploit a machine the other aspect is we
made it easy to stay secure this is one
of the interesting part is a lot of the
problems happen on machines that are out
of date you know there's been a security
patch issued but somebody just didn't
install it right well what we've done
within the RSU process software updates
it's just made it real
simple for people to keep up to date and
that's a lot of the reasons behind it oh
and by the way those are signed packages
that come down so you know they're
actually real and they're not being
spoofed so the point is is we've really
built in a lot of a lot of security you
know just to stay secure and then
finally there's the communications in
the community aspect of this is
something we probably should publicize
more well how we communicate our
security issues you know we have a
couple of methods here the first one is
when you get your software update you
get a description of what what's there
that's generally fairly generic because
its aim for every single user out there
in the world okay that isn't going to
understand a lot of the technology so we
try to make it as clear as possible but
for a very large audience and a
non-technical audience typically from
there you can drill down and get to our
website and on our website we do go into
details as far as exactly what the
security issue is and what we're fixing
on a patch so you can see that and just
draw a lot deeper we also work with a
lot of the outside groups you know who
are who are like CVE which is a mitre
you know run a you know the organization
and essentially there you can actually
track these security issues and really
growth in incredible detail online so
there's a kind of a layered approach to
get the information out there and we
participate very very heavily than that
so the point is is in a way our trump
card at the end of the day in talking
about it is is really about security and
again you know we can't make any major
promises that will never have a virus
you know we knock on wood that it won't
happen our track record to date has been
extremely good so we're very happy about
that so again to kind of summarize here
when you go back right I tried to run
through some of the things I've heard
some of the myths I've I've encountered
try to give you some come back to that
but at the end of the day I think when
you kind of sum it up and say you know
it's all about the power of UNIX you
know the simplicity of the Mac whenever
I get two people to really have that
light go on and that's what they're
getting people generally really get
excited I love going sitting down my
favorite person to go talk to is the
absolute skeptic
and whenever I go through a demo I can
usually get them turned into about a
half hour and again it all comes back to
it's all about the power of eunuchs in
the simplicity with of the mac